15.md, before:

+++
date = "2015-10-03"
draft = false
weight = 15
title = "Mitaka Installation Plan"
+++

### Mitaka Installation Plan ####
Here is our new Mitaka lab platform. The online instructions are written for Ubuntu 14.04, but we will use 16.04, hence this effort.

|Password name|Description|
|---|---|
|Database password (no variable used)|Root password for the database|
|RABBIT_PASS|Password of user guest of RabbitMQ|
|KEYSTONE_DBPASS|Database password of Identity service|
|DEMO_PASS|Password of user demo|
|ADMIN_PASS|Password of user admin|
|GLANCE_DBPASS|Database password for Image Service|
|GLANCE_PASS|Password of Image Service user glance|
|NOVA_DBPASS|Database password for Compute service|
|NOVA_PASS|Password of Compute service user nova|
|DASH_DBPASS|Database password for the dashboard|
|CINDER_DBPASS|Database password for the Block Storage service|
|CINDER_PASS|Password of Block Storage service user cinder|
|NEUTRON_DBPASS|Database password for the Networking service|
|NEUTRON_PASS|Password of Networking service user neutron|
|HEAT_DBPASS|Database password for the Orchestration service|
|HEAT_PASS|Password of Orchestration service user heat|
|CEILOMETER_DBPASS|Database password for the Telemetry service|
|CEILOMETER_PASS|Password of Telemetry service user ceilometer|
|TROVE_DBPASS|Database password of Database service|
|TROVE_PASS|Password of Database Service user trove|


# Install OpenStack on Ubuntu 16.04


### 0. Ansible Setup: All nodes begin with ubuntu 16.04

1. set static IP address in /etc/network/interfaces as in this EXAMPLE (do not cut and paste!!!) 

    <pre>
    auto ens160
    iface ens160 inet static
    address a.b.c.d
    netmask 255.255.255.0
    gateway a.b.c.1
    dns-nameservers 192.168.201.80
    </pre>

2. Edit  `visudo` for ansible user ID (ender in my case)
     > Create a new user "ender" Assign a strong password as you will only use it ONCE anyhow.

       `sudo adduser ender`  

       `sudo visudo`  
    ```
    # at the very bottom of the file, add this:
    # --------- other stuff up here --------
    ender ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD: ALL
    ```
3. On ender: `ssh 'ender@A.B.C.D`, enter the long password from step 2 and ender has passwordless sudo access to the new node.

4. Install python2.7 because Ubuntu 16.04 ships with python3.0 which ansible cannot handle right now
  
    `sudo apt-get install python2.7`  

### 01. ENVIRONMENT: All nodes begin with ubuntu 16.04 Warning: Instructions are written for 14.04, so be careful.

|Environment|Keystone|Glance|Nova|Neutron|Dashboard|Cinder|Swift|Heat|Ceilometer|Test|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|[01](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/environment.html)|[02](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/keystone.html)|[03](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/glance.html)|[04](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/nova.html)|[05](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/neutron.html)|[06](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/horizon.html)|[07](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/cinder.html)|[08](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/swift.html)|[09](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/heat.html)|[10](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/ceilometer.html)|[11](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/launch-instance.html)|

  - Security - **No changes**
  - Host networking management: **10.3.0.0/22** 
  - Host networking Provider: **10.3.4.0/22**
  - Network Time Protocol: **use chrony**
  - OpenStack packages; **SKIP THIS , not necessay with 16.04 version**
  - SQL database - **Install as written**
  - NoSQL database - **Install as written**
  - Message queue - **Install as written**
  - Memcached - **Install as written**




### 02. KEYSTONE(Indentity Service): 

|Environment|Keystone|Glance|Nova|Neutron|Dashboard|Cinder|Swift|Heat|Ceilometer|Test|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|[01](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/environment.html)|[02](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/keystone.html)|[03](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/glance.html)|[04](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/nova.html)|[05](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/neutron.html)|[06](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/horizon.html)|[07](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/cinder.html)|[08](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/swift.html)|[09](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/heat.html)|[10](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/ceilometer.html)|[11](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/launch-instance.html)|


  - Install apache and mysql databases as described
  - Create the service entity and API endpoints - **OK**
  - Create a domain, projects, users, and roles - **OK for NOW**
  - Verify operation - - **OK**
  - Create OpenStack client environment scripts - **OK**


### 03. GLANCE(Image Service): 

|Environment|Keystone|Glance|Nova|Neutron|Dashboard|Cinder|Swift|Heat|Ceilometer|Test|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|[01](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/environment.html)|[02](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/keystone.html)|[03](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/glance.html)|[04](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/nova.html)|[05](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/neutron.html)|[06](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/horizon.html)|[07](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/cinder.html)|[08](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/swift.html)|[09](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/heat.html)|[10](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/ceilometer.html)|[11](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/launch-instance.html)|

  - Install and configure
  - Prerequisites
  - Install and configure components
  - Finalize installation
  - Verify operation




### 04. Nova(Compute Service): 

|Environment|Keystone|Glance|Nova|Neutron|Dashboard|Cinder|Swift|Heat|Ceilometer|Test|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|[01](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/environment.html)|[02](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/keystone.html)|[03](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/glance.html)|[04](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/nova.html)|[05](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/neutron.html)|[06](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/horizon.html)|[07](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/cinder.html)|[08](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/swift.html)|[09](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/heat.html)|[10](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/ceilometer.html)|[11](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/launch-instance.html)|

Commit message:

add nova, neutron, and dashboard

15.md, after:

+++
date = "2015-10-03"
draft = false
weight = 15
title = "Mitaka Installation Plan"
+++

### Mitaka Installation Plan ####
Here is our new Mitaka lab platform. The online instructions are written for Ubuntu 14.04, but we will use 16.04, hence this effort.

|Password name|Description|
|---|---|
|Database password (no variable used)|Root password for the database|
|RABBIT_PASS|Password of user guest of RabbitMQ|
|KEYSTONE_DBPASS|Database password of Identity service|
|DEMO_PASS|Password of user demo|
|ADMIN_PASS|Password of user admin|
|GLANCE_DBPASS|Database password for Image Service|
|GLANCE_PASS|Password of Image Service user glance|
|NOVA_DBPASS|Database password for Compute service|
|NOVA_PASS|Password of Compute service user nova|
|DASH_DBPASS|Database password for the dashboard|
|CINDER_DBPASS|Database password for the Block Storage service|
|CINDER_PASS|Password of Block Storage service user cinder|
|NEUTRON_DBPASS|Database password for the Networking service|
|NEUTRON_PASS|Password of Networking service user neutron|
|HEAT_DBPASS|Database password for the Orchestration service|
|HEAT_PASS|Password of Orchestration service user heat|
|CEILOMETER_DBPASS|Database password for the Telemetry service|
|CEILOMETER_PASS|Password of Telemetry service user ceilometer|
|TROVE_DBPASS|Database password of Database service|
|TROVE_PASS|Password of Database Service user trove|


# Install OpenStack on Ubuntu 16.04


### 0. Ansible Setup: All nodes begin with ubuntu 16.04

1. set static IP address in /etc/network/interfaces as in this EXAMPLE (do not cut and paste!!!) 

    <pre>
    auto ens160
    iface ens160 inet static
    address a.b.c.d
    netmask 255.255.255.0
    gateway a.b.c.1
    dns-nameservers 192.168.201.80
    </pre>

2. Edit  `visudo` for ansible user ID (ender in my case)
     > Create a new user "ender" Assign a strong password as you will only use it ONCE anyhow.

       `sudo adduser ender`  

       `sudo visudo`  
    ```
    # at the very bottom of the file, add this:
    # --------- other stuff up here --------
    ender ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD: ALL
    ```
3. On ender: `ssh 'ender@A.B.C.D`, enter the long password from step 2 and ender has passwordless sudo access to the new node.

4. Install python2.7 because Ubuntu 16.04 ships with python3.0 which ansible cannot handle right now
  
    `sudo apt-get install python2.7`  

### 01. ENVIRONMENT: All nodes begin with ubuntu 16.04 Warning: Instructions are written for 14.04, so be careful.

|Environment|Keystone|Glance|Nova|Neutron|Dashboard|Cinder|Swift|Heat|Ceilometer|Test|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|[01](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/environment.html)|[02](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/keystone.html)|[03](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/glance.html)|[04](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/nova.html)|[05](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/neutron.html)|[06](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/horizon.html)|[07](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/cinder.html)|[08](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/swift.html)|[09](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/heat.html)|[10](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/ceilometer.html)|[11](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/launch-instance.html)|

  - Security - **No changes**
  - Host networking management: **10.3.0.0/22** 
  - Host networking Provider: **10.3.4.0/22**
  - Network Time Protocol: **use chrony**
  - OpenStack packages; **SKIP THIS , not necessay with 16.04 version**
  - SQL database - **Install as written**
  - NoSQL database - **Install as written**
  - Message queue - **Install as written**
  - Memcached - **Install as written**




### 02. KEYSTONE(Indentity Service)

|Environment|Keystone|Glance|Nova|Neutron|Dashboard|Cinder|Swift|Heat|Ceilometer|Test|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|[01](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/environment.html)|[02](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/keystone.html)|[03](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/glance.html)|[04](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/nova.html)|[05](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/neutron.html)|[06](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/horizon.html)|[07](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/cinder.html)|[08](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/swift.html)|[09](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/heat.html)|[10](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/ceilometer.html)|[11](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/launch-instance.html)|


  - Install apache and mysql databases as described
  - Create the service entity and API endpoints - **OK**
  - Create a domain, projects, users, and roles - **OK for NOW**
  - Verify operation - - **OK**
  - Create OpenStack client environment scripts - **OK**


### 03. GLANCE(Image Service)

|Environment|Keystone|Glance|Nova|Neutron|Dashboard|Cinder|Swift|Heat|Ceilometer|Test|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|[01](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/environment.html)|[02](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/keystone.html)|[03](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/glance.html)|[04](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/nova.html)|[05](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/neutron.html)|[06](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/horizon.html)|[07](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/cinder.html)|[08](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/swift.html)|[09](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/heat.html)|[10](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/ceilometer.html)|[11](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/launch-instance.html)|

  - Install and configure - **OK**
  - Verify operation - **OK**


### 04. Nova(Compute Service): 

|Environment|Keystone|Glance|Nova|Neutron|Dashboard|Cinder|Swift|Heat|Ceilometer|Test|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|[01](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/environment.html)|[02](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/keystone.html)|[03](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/glance.html)|[04](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/nova.html)|[05](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/neutron.html)|[06](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/horizon.html)|[07](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/cinder.html)|[08](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/swift.html)|[09](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/heat.html)|[10](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/ceilometer.html)|[11](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/launch-instance.html)|

  - Install and configure controller node - **I expect 16.04 will be a little diferent here**  
  - Install and configure a compute node - **OK**
  - Verify operation - **OK**


### 05. Neutron (Network Service using Open vSwitch (OVS) and Distributed Virtual Router (DVR) )

|Environment|Keystone|Glance|Nova|Neutron|Dashboard|Cinder|Swift|Heat|Ceilometer|Test|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|[01](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/environment.html)|[02](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/keystone.html)|[03](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/glance.html)|[04](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/nova.html)|[05](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/neutron.html)|[06](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/horizon.html)|[07](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/cinder.html)|[08](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/swift.html)|[09](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/heat.html)|[10](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/ceilometer.html)|[11](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/launch-instance.html)|

  - Install and configure controller node - **OK**
  - Install and configure compute node - **NOT OK, I want to use OVS with DVR, not linux bridge** 
    - here is OVS with DVR: http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/networking-guide/scenario-l3ha-ovs.html
  - Verify operation - Lots of testing I think**


### 06. Horizon (Dashboard) 

|Environment|Keystone|Glance|Nova|Neutron|Dashboard|Cinder|Swift|Heat|Ceilometer|Test|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|[01](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/environment.html)|[02](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/keystone.html)|[03](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/glance.html)|[04](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/nova.html)|[05](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/neutron.html)|[06](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/horizon.html)|[07](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/cinder.html)|[08](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/swift.html)|[09](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/heat.html)|[10](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/ceilometer.html)|[11](http://docs.openstack.org/mitaka/install-guide-ubuntu/launch-instance.html)|


  - Install and configure - **OK**
  - Verify operation - **OK**
